Chemical Reactions and Equations
NCERT BASED QUESTIONS


AUTHOR- Anika Lohan 
(Undergraduate student)



Question 1: What is a chemical reaction? Give an example.(1+1 marks)
Question 2: An experiment was performed wherein a magnesium ribbon was held with a pair of tongs and was burned after being cleaned by rubbing a sandpaper on it.
What did you observe?
Give a chemical reaction for this experiment.
What is the color of the final product formed?
(1+1+1 marks) 
Question 3: An experiment was performed wherein a lead nitrate solution is taken in a test tube. Later  potassium iodine solution was added to this. What are your observations ?(obviously i would want an equation duh)
Question 4:  List any four observations which might help us determine that a chemical; reaction has taken place.
Question 5: An experiment was performed where zinc granules are taken in a conical flask or a test tube. Later Dilute hydrochloric acid or sulphuric acid was added.
Give a chemical equation for the same. (2 equations one with both acids separately)
Formation of what gas is observed and how can you identify this gas?
(2+2 marks)
Question 6: define the following-
Reactants 
Products
Skeletal equation 
Balanced chemical equation 
Question 7: Give a balanced chemical equation for the following -
Zinc and sulphuric acid 
Iron and water 
Photosynthesis equation 
Carbon monoxide and water
Hydrogen and chlorine 
Barium chloride and aluminum sulfate 
Sodium and water 
Barium chloride and sodium sulfate 
Sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid 
Calcium hydroxide and carbonic oxide 


Question 8: 
What is a combination reaction ?
(I need the 5 examples mentioned in the book )
Decomposition reaction (5 examples as mentioned i need the equation nd the observations as well like gas released or color of the products )
Displacement reaction (again i need 4 equations )
Oxidation and reduction (5 examples needed dear)







In case you couldn't do the above last question here is a help box-
1. Quick lime
2. Burning of coal 
3. Formation of water
4. Burning of natural gas
5.exothermic process
1. Ferrous sulfate
2. Limestone 
3. Lead nitrate 
4. Silver chloride 
5. Silver bromide 
1. Iron and copper sulfate 
2. Zinc and copper sulfate 
3. Lead and copper chloride
4. Sodium sulfate and barium chloride 
Copper burned and then later burned in h2 (2 equations )
 Zinc oxide and carbon 
Manganese oxide and hydrochloric acid 

 












